Personal Travel Journal with Vue.js and Directus (#70)
directus-labs/guest-authoring: travel-journal/index.md

---
title: 'Personal Travel Journal with Vue.js and Directus'
description: 'This tutorial covers how to create a personal travel journal with Directus and Vue.js with authentication features'
author:
  name: 'Mercy bassey'
  avatar_file_name: 'mercy-bassey.jpg'
---

## Introduction

> Vue.js, a progressive JavaScript framework known for its simplicity and flexibility, has gained widespread popularity among developers for building interactive user interfaces. In this tutorial, you we’ll build a personal travel journal application using Vue.js in conjunction with Directus, an open-source headless CMS. In this guide we’ll go through the process of implementing user authentication with Directus and demonstrate how to interact with a Directus collection using the Vue.js framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you we’ll build a personal travel journal application using Vue.js and Directus. We’ll go through the process of implementing user authentication with Directus and demonstrate how to interact with a Directus collection using the Vue.js framework.
```

I think opening with explaining what Vue is isn't strictly needed - readers should know this coming in. Even if not, you explain that it's a framework at the end of the paragraph. 

Other suggestions are just to make this more succinct.

## Before You Start

You'll need:

> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and a [text editor](https://kinsta.com/blog/best-text-editors/) installed on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and a code editor installed on your machine.
```

No need to link to Kinsta. Also specifying 'code' editor because that's ideally what they'll use.

> - A Directus project created either using [Directus Cloud](https://directus.cloud/) or [run locally on your machine.](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html) This tutorial on the otherhand uses Directus Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Directus project created either using [Directus Cloud](https://directus.cloud/) or [run locally on your machine.](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html)
```

They function the same for this purpose, so no need to tell them what you used.

- Some knowledge of the Vue.js Composition API.

## Creating A Vue.js Project

> Open up your command prompt or terminal app and run the following command:
> 
> This will create a Vue.js project using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open up your command prompt or terminal app and run the following command:
```

What's happening is clear from the section header

```bash
npm create vue@3
```

During project creation, when prompted with questions, choose the following configurations:

```bash
✔ Project name: … ./directus-travel-journal
✔ Package name: … -directus-travel-journal
✔ Add TypeScript? … No / Yes
✔ Add JSX Support? … No / Yes
✔ Add Vue Router for Single Page Application development? … No / Yes
✔ Add Pinia for state management? … No / Yes
✔ Add Vitest for Unit Testing? … No / Yes
✔ Add an End-to-End Testing Solution? › No
✔ Add ESLint for code quality? … No / Yes
```

> Once completed, execute the following commands sequentially to finalize the project creation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once completed, run the following command to install dependencies and start the development server:
```

It's always good to be more straightforward and remove words where they don't have impact. Execute -> Run, for example, is more clear.

cd directus-travel-journal
code .
npm install
npm run dev
```

Once everything is set up, visit the following address  - localhost:5173 **and you should see the vite welcome page:

![Viewing the vite welcome page](./images/1.png)

## Creating a Journal and Users Collection

In your Directus project, navigate to Settings -> Data Model and create a new collection called `journal`. Use `journal` as the table name and leave every other configuration as their defaults.

Create the following fields with the following types:

- `title`: Input - string (*required*).
- `description`: Textarea - text (*required*).
- `photo`: Image - uuid (*required*).
- `city`: Input - string (*required*).
- `country`: Input - string (*required*).

Add a description of the `journal` collection and proceed to creating the collection.

![Creating the journal collection](./images/2.png)

> Head over to Settings→Access Control, create customer role with only App Access. Give it create, read, update and delete access to the `journal` collection, add a description and then proceed to creating the customer role while taking note of the customer role id:
> 
> ![Creating a customer role](./images/3.png)
> 
> After creating the customer role, you will be directed to the Access Control page. Click on the Public role and enable create, read, update and delete access to the `journal` collections and also for `directus_files` under system collections:
> 
> ![Authorizing public role](./images/4.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your Directus project, navigate to Settings → Access Control and create a `Customer` role with only App Access. Give it create, read, update and delete access to both the `journal` and `directus_files` collection. Take note of the Customer role ID in the sidebar of the role permissions overview page.

![The access control settings for the public role show read, write, edit, and delete operations for both the journal and Directus files collections](./images/4.png)
```

This was needlessly repetitive - you want them to do the same thing for two collections, so combine them. If users needed help navigating to the `directus_files`, the image acts as the support.

## Preparing the Vue.js Project

In your Vue.js project, navigate to the `src` folder. Delete the `base.css` file and edit the `main.css` file to contain the following: 

```css
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Poppins:wght@300&display=swap');

*, body{
  font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif;
}
```

> Doing this will set the overall font for the Vue.js application to [Poppins](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Poppins).

Reviewer: Because I don't want you to have to redo lots of screenshots, let's leave this as-is. But I'll share that I tend to not style any pages in technical tutorials as it is both subjective/often customized by readers, and a distraction from the core knowledge we are trying to impart. 

This is more just a note to help your technical writing in future.

> Head over to the `components` folder and delete everything in it ncluding the `icons` folder and the following components `HelloWorld.vue`, `TheWelcome.vue` and `WelcomeItem.vue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Head over to the `components` folder and delete everything in it, including the `icons` folder and the following components `HelloWorld.vue`, `TheWelcome.vue` and `WelcomeItem.vue`.
```

      name: 'login',
      component: LoginView
    },
    {
      path: '/signup',
      name: 'signup',
      component: () => import('../views/SignupView.vue')
    },
    {
      path: '/addjournal',
      name: 'addjournal',
      component: () => import('../views/Addjournal.vue'),
    },
    {
      path: '/readjournal',
      name: 'readjournal',
      component: () => import('../views/Readjournal.vue')
    }
  ]
})

export default router
```

This will set up the basic routing for the Vue.js application, allowing users to navigate between different views. Below is a quick summary of the views:

- `/`: This is the root path of the application and is associated with a view called `LoginView`. When users visit the base URL of your application, they are directed to this view, which is typically used for user authentication.
- `/signup`: This path leads to the `SignupView` and is designed for new users to register or create an account. When users navigate to `/signup`, they are presented with a signup form to enter their details and create a new account.
- `/addjournal`: This is the part for the `Addjournal` view. This route is used for adding new journal entries.

> - `readjournal`: • This route is linked to the `Readjournal` view. It is intended for users to view and read their existing journal entries. When users navigate to `/readjournal`, they can browse through all the journal entries they have created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `readjournal`: This route is linked to the `Readjournal` view. It is intended for users to view and read their existing journal entries. When users navigate to `/readjournal`, they can browse through all the journal entries they have created.
```

> Now go into the `views` folder; delete the existing views - `AboutView.vue` and `HomeView.vue` and create the following views - `LoginView.vue`, `SignupView.vue`, `Addjournal.vue` and `Readjournal.vue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `views` folder, delete the existing views - `AboutView.vue` and `HomeView.vue` and create the following views - `LoginView.vue`, `SignupView.vue`, `Addjournal.vue` and `Readjournal.vue`.
```

> Finally, edit your `App.vue` to contain the following code :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, edit your `App.vue` to contain the following code:
```

```html
<script setup>
import { RouterView } from 'vue-router'

</script>

<template>
  <RouterView />
</template>
```

## Configuring Login and SignUp

With your Vue.js project set up, you’ll now dive into the main functionality of the travel journal application.

First install [Axios](https://axios-http.com/docs/intro) using the following command:

This is the library we will use to interact with the Directus API.

```jsx
npm i axios

> ```

Reviewer: Install the dependencies right at the start, after creating the Vue project. This should include the Directus SDK as well. edit: you aren't using the SDK.

I'd also remove the first line - you don't need to write an intro when the heading says what we'll be doing in this section.

Head over to the `LoginView.vue` view and add the following script:

```javascript
<script setup>
import { ref } from 'vue';
import { useRouter } from 'vue-router';
import axios from 'axios';

const router = useRouter();
const email = ref('');
const password = ref('');

const handleLogin = async () => {
  try {
    const response = await axios.post('http://localhost:8055/auth/login', {
      email: email.value,
      password: password.value,

>     });

Reviewer: This still isn't using the SDK!

Author: Implemented

```bash
cd directus-travel-journal
npm install
npm run dev
```

Once the command is run, visit `http://localhost:5173` and you should see a starter project. Open the new directory in your code editor before continuing.

## Creating a Journal and Users Collection

In your Directus project, navigate to Settings -> Data Model and create a new collection called `journal`. Use `journal` as the table name and leave every other configuration as their defaults.

Create the following fields with the following types:

- `title`: Input - string (*required*).
- `description`: Textarea - text (*required*).
- `photo`: Image - uuid (*required*).
- `city`: Input - string (*required*).
- `country`: Input - string (*required*).

Add a description of the `journal` collection and proceed to creating the collection.

![Creating the journal collection](./images/2.png)

Head over to Settings→Access Control, create customer role with only App Access. Give it create, read, update and delete access to the `journal` collection, add a description and then proceed to creating the customer role while taking note of the customer role id:

> ![Creating a customer role](./images/3.png)

Reviewer: remove this - it's covered in the next image

      name: 'login',
      component: LoginView
    },
    {
      path: '/signup',
      name: 'signup',
      component: () => import('../views/SignupView.vue')
    },
    {
      path: '/addjournal',
      name: 'addjournal',
      component: () => import('../views/Addjournal.vue'),
    },
    {
      path: '/readjournal',
      name: 'readjournal',
      component: () => import('../views/Readjournal.vue')
    }
  ]
})

export default router
```

This will set up the basic routing for the Vue.js application, allowing users to navigate between different views. Below is a quick summary of the views:

- `/`: This is the root path of the application and is associated with a view called `LoginView`. When users visit the base URL of your application, they are directed to this view, which is typically used for user authentication.
- `/signup`: This path leads to the `SignupView` and is designed for new users to register or create an account. When users navigate to `/signup`, they are presented with a signup form to enter their details and create a new account.
- `/addjournal`: This is the part for the `Addjournal` view. This route is used for adding new journal entries.

> - `/readjournal`: • This route is linked to the `Readjournal` view. It is intended for users to view and read their existing journal entries. When users navigate to `/readjournal`, they can browse through all the journal entries they have created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/readjournal`: This route is linked to the `Readjournal` view. It is intended for users to view and read their existing journal entries. When users navigate to `/readjournal`, they can browse through all the journal entries they have created.
```

In the `views` folder, delete the existing views - `AboutView.vue` and `HomeView.vue` and create the following views - `LoginView.vue`, `SignupView.vue`, `Addjournal.vue` and `Readjournal.vue`.

Finally, edit your `App.vue` to contain the following code:

```html
<script setup>
import { RouterView } from 'vue-router'

</script>

<template>
  <RouterView />
</template>
```

## Installing the Directus SDK
With your Vue.js project set up, proceed to install the Directus SDK with the following command:

```bash
npm install @directus/sdk

> ```

Reviewer: Install dependencies at the same time as initializing the app.

Author: done.

## Configuring Login and SignUp

With the Directus SDK installed, you’ll now dive into the main functionality of the travel journal application.

First head over to the `LoginView.vue` view and add the following script:

```javascript
<script setup>
import { ref } from 'vue';
import { useRouter } from 'vue-router';

> import { createDirectus, authentication, rest, login} from '@directus/sdk';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { createDirectus, authentication, rest, login } from '@directus/sdk';
```

Can you run this code through a formatter?

const email = ref('');
const password = ref('');

const router = useRouter();

> const directus = createDirectus('http://localhost:8055').with(authentication('json')).with(rest());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const directus = createDirectus('YOUR_DIRECTUS_PROJECT_URL').with(authentication('json')).with(rest());
```

^ please make this change throughout - it might be a hosted instance, for example

        This  is the Addjournal view
    </div>
</template>
```

Head over to your Vue application over the browser, you should see the following:

![Viewing the Vue application](./images/5.png)

At this point, navigate to the signup page by clicking on **signup,** and then create a user:

![Creating a user](./images/6.png)

Once the user is created successfully, you should be directed to the `Addjournal.vue` view:

![Viewing ths addjournal view](./images/7.png)

To confirm the user has been created, head to your Directus project and navigate to User Directory → All Users, you should see the newly created user:

![Viewing user on directus](./images/8.png)

With this, you have successfully intergrated Directus Auth in your Vue.js project. And also, you can login with the newly created user credentials in your Vue.js application.

## Creating and Viewing Journals

Now that you have successfully integrated a login and signup feature with Directus, it’s time to actually interact with the `journals` collections from your Vue.js application, so users can add journal entries, edit, delete and also view them.

First, edit your `Addjournal.vue` view to contain the following script:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: This is too much for one block - break it into a few smaller steps to make sure readers understand what is going on.

Reviewer: Maybe create just text, then create add images, then updating?

Author: DOne.

      <div v-if="isLoading">Submitting...</div>
    </form>
  </div>
</template>
```

And then the following styles:

```css
<style scoped>
.add-journal-container {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  min-height: 100vh; 
  background-color: #f5f5f5; 
  font-family: Arial, sans-serif; 
}

.form-group {
  margin-bottom: 15px;
}

form {
  padding: 20px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd; 
  border-radius: 4px; 
  background: white;
  box-shadow: 0 4px 8px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1); 
  max-width: 300px; 
  width: 100%;
}

label {
  display: block;
  margin-bottom: 5px; 
}

input[type="text"], textarea, input[type="file"] {
  width: 100%; 
  padding: 8px;
  border: 1px solid #ddd; 
  border-radius: 4px; 
  box-sizing: border-box; 
}

button {
  width: 100%; 
  padding: 10px;
  border: none;
  border-radius: 4px;
  background-color: #4CAF50; 
  color: white; 
  font-size: 16px;
  cursor: pointer; 
  transition: background-color 0.3s; 
}

button:hover {
  background-color: #45a049; 
}

.photo-preview img {
  max-width: 150px; 
  max-height: 150px;
  object-fit: cover;
}
</style>
```

For viewing journals, add the following script in your `Readjournal.vue` view:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: Again, I'd split this to viewing, and then deleting.

Author: Done.

}
  
.delete-button {
  background-color: #f44336;
}
  
.edit-button:hover {
  background-color: #45a049;
}
  
.delete-button:hover {
  background-color: #d32f2f;
}

.content {
  margin-bottom: 10px;
  border: 2px solid black;
  padding: 10px;
}

.journal-entry {
  width: 100%; 
  margin-bottom: 30px;
}
</style>
```

Head over to your Vue.js application over the browser and go ahead to create a journal:

![Creating a journal](./images/9.png)

Once the journal is created successfully, you will be directed to the `Readjournal` view:

![Viewing journal entry](./images/10.png)

Head to the `Journals` collection in your directus project to view your journal entry:

To view the image attached to a journal entry, select the `+` icon at the top right of the `Journals` collection page, select photos and then thumbnails:

![Viewing journal image](./images/11.png)

Onced clicked, you should be able to see the photo related to a journal entry:

![Viewing journal image](./images/12.png)

You can also do this for other columns like description like so:

![Viewing journal description](./images/13.png)

Head to files to see images that was uploaded from your Vue.js application:

> ![Viewing files in directus](./images/14.png)

Reviewer: I would remove this - it's kind of unrelated to the application you're building, and more about data exploration inside of the Data Studio. Given the complexity and length of this post, I'd remove all-but-the-most-required teaching.

Author: I have renamed the images.
